One of the interesting things about
Nvidia, it's uh it's the culture of
win-win. We are not after uh taking a
bigger piece of existing pie. We are
after baking our
a bigger pie for everybody and uh our
success is our customer success. It's
not our success is not the failure of
our competition. And I think fusing
together uh conventional computing when
human machines and uh accelerated
computing that provided with Nvidia it's
actually gives uh Nvidia and Intel
channels to the market or expanding the
market and serving the markets that uh
otherwise was more challenging.
>> [music]
>> We are delighted to hear today from one
of the legends of the semiconductor
industry, Michael Kagan, the CTO of
NVIDIA.
Michael was formerly chief architect at
Intel and then co-founder and CTO of
Melanox, which Nvidia acquired for $7
billion in March 2019.
In the time since, Michael has been a
major driver of NVIDIA's dominance as
the AI compute platform, in large part
due to the role of Melanox and
Interconnect in driving chips beyond
Moors law. The AI race is ultimately a
silicon race to squeeze the most
intelligence possible out of each unit
of silicon. And Michael takes us down a
journey about how the compute frontier
has evolved from squeezing more
transistors onto a single chip to bring
together thousands and hundreds of
thousands of chips into a single fabric
connected by networking or an AI data
center. Michael has been driving the
compute frontier forward for more than
four decades and we're honored to have
him on today's show.
>> Okay, we're here with Michael Kagan, the
CTO of Nvidia, currently the world's
most valuable company. Michael, thank
you for joining us. Thank you. My
pleasure.
>> So, I thought where we could start. Our
partner Sean likes to make the case
about every six months that Nvidia would
not be Nvidia without Melanox. Melanox
is the company that you co-founded some
25 years ago and have been a part of
through this day. So, can you kind of
paint that picture for us? Why is it
that the Melanox acquisition was so
critical to Nvidia?
um you know there's a huge transition in
the world in terms of uh computing and
uh need for computing.
>> Mhm.
>> And uh it grows grows exponentially and
u one of the things that we usually
estimate linearly but the world was
exponential and exponential growth now
is actually accelerated. It used to be
like Merlo which is a basic silicon
and uh it was you know twice every other
year and u regardless you know the
discussion that Murlo in terms of
physics is not quite uh running anymore.
uh the once the AI kicked in which was
in the 2010 2011 and kicked in when GPU
from graphic processing unit became
general processing unit actually where
it's running uh workloads where the
first time
>> the AI workload was run on the GPU uh
taking advantage of the programmability
and u parallel nature of uh of this
machine the requirements for performance
started to grow up at uh much higher
coefficient. So the models started to go
up in terms of uh size and capacity uh
2x every 3 months which requires now 10x
or 16x a year performance growth versus
uh versus uh old school of uh 2x uh
twice every other year. And uh in order
to grow at this scale you need to
innovate and uh you need to u develop
solutions at much higher scale than just
basic component and that's where network
kicks in.
>> That's where network is and uh and uh
there's a multiple layers of uh of
scaling performance that requires uh
high speeded networks and high
performance networks. The one is uh what
we call scale up.
>> Mhm. Basically if you going back to the
CPU days scaling up was uh more low more
transistors and also some advances in
the micro architecture like auto
execution and at some point uh
multi-core and so on and so forth but uh
so this is the basic building block of
computing in the GPU world the basic
building block is the GPU
>> and in order to scale it up uh more than
you can do on a single piece of silicon
with the lot of uh advances that we are
doing with the uh micro architecture and
advanced technologies we actually need
to do something uh on the scale of on
the on the sort of multi-core CPU but on
much larger scale and that's what we are
doing with envelop
solution so uh our GPU what we call GPU
today is a rock size machine
>> you need a forklift to lift it
>> so [laughter] you know if you uh order
just GPU on Amazon just don't wonder
that you will show up this huge rack of
>> yeah people think chip but it's really a
system
>> right so and that's just one GPU
>> okay so basic building block a very
basic computer that uh application
software is running on is this GPU and
it is not just silicon it's not just
hardware it's not just wires but there's
also uh software layer that exposes CUDA
as the API and uh that's what actually
enables to pretty much seamlessly scale
I'm simplifying a little bit the story
but seamlessly scale from one component
that used to be single GPU all the way
up to 72 maintaining the same uh
software interface.
And uh once you get this building block
as big as it conceivably can be built uh
in terms of uh you know
power cost efficiency then you start
scaling out.
>> Yeah. And scale out is me means you take
many of these building blocks connect
them together and now on the algorithm
level on the application level you
actually split your application to
multiple pieces running in parallel on
these big machines.
>> Mhm. And that's again where network
comes in. And uh there's a so if you
talk about scale up we basically made uh
memory like domain to
to go beyond single compute node on a
single single GPU and that's actually
the first thing that where Melanox
technology comes in because before
Melanox acquisition
>> the scaling up uh of uh Nvidia with the
NBIN was limited to a single node
machine uh going outside of single
compute node. If these 72 uh GPUs are
it's actually 36 computers each one has
two GPUs and they're wired together. So
present all this as a single GPU uh
getting connectivity outside of the
single node. It's not just plugging in
the wire to the to the connector. It's
lot of software. It's lot of uh
technology within the network how to
make multiple nodes to work as uh the
single uh the single machine and that's
where Melanox
first [snorts]
just immediate in terms of you know the
the way we go upstream that's uh that's
the first one the second one is uh how
do you uh split the operation across
multiple multiple machines and the way
to do it if I have a task that it takes
one GPU to do one second. If I want to
accelerate it, I split it to 10 to you
know thousand pieces and send each piece
to different GPU. And now in 1
millisecond I get done whatever I was
doing in the second. But you know you
need to communicate this partial uh
job split split split the task then you
need to consolidate the results and uh
every time you are and you you you run
this you know multiple times you have a
uh multiple iterations or multiple uh
applications running to us. So so that
there's a part of doing communication
part of doing computation. Now the thing
is that you want to split it to as many
pieces as you possibly can because
that's that's your speed up factor. But
then if your communication is actually
blocking you, you you you waste time,
you waste energy, you waste everything.
So what you need to do, you need to have
a very fast communication. So you split
it into the many many pieces and so each
each piece takes very little time. But
then there's a another piece that is
communicated and you need to feed it to
this time. So that's that's just pure
bandwidth. And another thing is that
when you tune your application, you tune
your application so that communication
can be hidden behind uh computation and
it means that if communication for some
reason gets longer then everybody waits.
M
>> so it means that what you need to do in
the network you need to have not only
just raw performance like what called
hero numbers you know I can get to that
many gigabits per second I also need to
make sure that no matter who's
communicate to whom the latency the the
time it takes is distribution is very
narrow
>> so if you look at uh at other network
technologies or other network products
you know you go to the hero numbers you
know sending bit from one place to
another it's basically physics Yeah,
>> it's so it's it's pretty much close to
the to everyone. You know, we are a
little bit better, but that's not not
not not the big advantage. But when you
do it thousands of times and it takes
the same time to do it versus very wide
distribution of uh other technologies,
then machine becomes less efficient. So
instead of being able to split your job
to thousand GPUs, you can split it only
to 10 GPUs because you need to
accommodate for the jitter on the
network within the communic with the
within the computation phase. So
inherently
network determines the performance of
this cluster and we look at this data
center as basically single unit of
computing.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Single movement computing means
that you look at this you you start
architecting your components your
software and your hardware at the point
where you know this is a data center
this is 100,000 GPUs that we want to
make them work together we need to make
multiple chips
compute chips two network chips five
>> okay so this is the scale just you know
in terms of you know what what's the
what's the impact just and what's the
investment you need to make to create
this single unit of computing. So that's
that's where Melanox uh Melanox
technology came in. And another aspect
of of this is there is a uh we talked
about uh network that uh connects the
GPUs to to run the task but there is a
other side of this machine which is
customerf facing. So you need to this
machine needs to save uh uh to to serve
multiple tenants and uh this machine
needs to run operating system. You know
every computer runs operating system.
Another part of the Melanox uh
technologies is uh what we call
bluefield DPU data processing unit which
is actually the computing platform to
run the operating system of the data
center. In conventional computer have a
CPU that runs operating system and runs
application software and u there's a
many things we can uh talk about you
know the advantage versus disadvantage
but the there are two key things one is
how much time do you spend on your
general purpose computing to run the
application you need to you want to
maximize it and another thing is how do
you isolate your infrastructure
computing from the application
computing
>> because you know viruses and and cyber
attacks and so on and so forth and being
able to run uh infrastructure computing
on a different computing platform
actually reduces significantly the
attack front
uh versus especially in the side channel
attacks
>> versus what what happens if you run it
on the same computer. If you remember
there was a five or well actually more
than almost 10 years ago there was this
a meltdown and all this uh cyber attacks
of the side channel uh on CPUs and uh
this cannot happen or the the the attack
surface is reduced significantly when
you run the different so on the other
side of the network we have also
technology so that's what makes data
center to be more efficient and uh I
well I maybe not objective but I do
agree that this merger of Melanox
[laughter] and and Nvidia and it's
actually goes both ways. I don't think
that networking business of now it's
Nvidia previously Melanox could have be
growing that that significantly.
>> Yeah as uh as it grew now I think we are
the fastest growing internet
business you know
let along NV link and and infiniband.
Yeah,
>> but just internet business is the
fastest growing business ever.
>> What are the things that break as you
get to 100,000 maybe eventually million
GPU clusters and how do you use software
to help design around that?
>> It's a it's a it's a multi-stage uh
challenge. Okay. One of the things that
you need to uh need to keep in mind,
it's not very obvious for all the
engineers that when you design the
machine or the thing how how to operate
it. Well, you know, you have these
components and they are working and now
just let's figure out. Okay, so the the
thing is that the hardware component
works at 99.999
whatever percent of the time and it's
usually okay if you are dealing with
single box with couple of them. But if
you are building 100,000 uh component
machine 100,000 GPUs machine which means
in terms of components there's a
millions of them uh the chance that
everything works is zero. So something
is definitely broken and you need to
divi design it both from hardware and
from software perspective to keep going
to keep going as efficient as you can to
keep uh you know your performance
performance you keep your power
efficiency and of course keep the
service service running. So this is
challenge number one even before we go
to millions it's uh this challenge
actually starts at you know few few tens
of thousands that's number one uh number
two is when you are uh running this uh
workloads it is really important to it
sometimes you run single job on the
entire entire data center and then it's
uh you know you need to write the
software and you need to uh provide all
the interfaces to the software to place
the different parts of the jobs jobs
more efficiently. Building uh networks
at this scale is a very different story
than building network
compute network on this scale is very
different story than build just general
purpose data center network. General
purpose data center network is internet.
It's not a big deal. Uh well it is a big
deal but it is it is different deal.
It's uh you are you are serving uh you
know loosely coupled collaborative uh
microservices that create the you know
service that you uh that you see as a as
a customer from outside here you are
running one single application on
100,000 machines.
>> Yeah. Is that specific to training
workloads or is that also true with
inference workloads? It's it's true it's
true for everything you know it depends
you know to what scale and the inference
is yet another yet another topic that we
we touch it you know till recently
training was uh the key thing you know a
lot of GPUs and there was a very
specific way of training is being done
you basically
copy this way another model on multiple
uh multiple machines or multiple sets of
machines and run them then consolidate
results and so on and so forth uh on uh
inference it's uh the story is a little
bit different but the thing is that you
need to provide the hooks on the
hardware and on your low-level uh
software system software for application
and for scheduler to place the job and
place the different parts of the job in
the most efficient way
>> on the you know and as long as as uh
your machine uh fits a building uh which
is about 100,000 uh GPUs is now talking
about you know gigawatt it's all all all
power driven okay the challenge is that
for many reason reasons uh you
want to split your workloads across
multiple data centers and uh sometimes
data centers are uh at a distance of
many kilometers many miles it's it may
be across the across the continent and
this you know it's comes with yet
another challenge which is speed of
light Yeah.
>> Okay. Now the the latency
variance between different parts of your
machine is dramatically different and uh
what is even more challenging is that
when you talk about networks the
congestion on the network is one of the
key problems that deteriorate network
performance.
>> Yeah. and managing congestion across
such a latency diff latency difference.
It's not like you know in old old telco
days you put some box in the edge of
your data center with a huge buffers and
it's a shock absorber for for
congestion. Huge buffer is is not is not
good.
>> You know some bigger is not better.
There's a there's famous statement from
very famous Wuan and uh uh so so we need
to and these buffers are basically or
these devices are basically to isolate
uh the external world from the internals
and [snorts]
but when you want to run a single
workload across data centers that are
distant by kilometers, you need to be
every machine on one side to be aware
what whom does it communicate to whether
it's short short communication long
communication and adjust all the
communication patterns accordingly. So
you don't need this big buffers because
big buffers is a jeter.
>> Yeah. Mhm.
>> And so we have a we have a technology we
actually developed it recently
technology uh you know all our uh
Ethernet network is spectrum X and uh
this is the device that uh we designed
and developed based on the spectrum uh
spectrum switch that we put on the edge
of the data center and uh it provides uh
all the information and telemetry needed
for uh uh for the endpoints to adjust
for the congestion. Yeah.
>> Can we talk a little bit more about
training versus inference? Like how does
the shape of workload differ when you're
doing I guess I guess back prop is a lot
more computationally intensive forward
pass less so but like h how does how
does the workload defer and then are you
seeing customer demand start to shift
from pre-training towards inference or
do you think it's still very training
heavy right now? And and if I could just
ask a quick follow-up question with
that, will people be running inference
workloads on the same data centers that
they use for training or will these end
up being two separate because they're
different optimizations, people end up
using two different sets of data
centers?
>> Uh okay. Yeah, that's that's that's
great question and um let me start with
the uh with the first one. So so
training has two phases. One is
inference which is just for forward
propagation and then back propagation to
adjust the weights and uh for uh data
parallel training is yet another phase
to consolidate the uh results of the
weights update across multiple uh model
uh copies. So till recently it was uh
main driver of the compute because uh
till not very long ago it's maybe two
years which is ages in the in the AI AI
era the inference or AI was mainly
perceptional. So you show the picture
that's a dog. You show u you know the uh
photo of the person and here's that's
that's Michael and that's Sonia and
that's so that's single path uh and and
that's it. Then came became generative
AI where actually you get the
recursive generation. So when you pause
the prompt then it's not just one
inference it's many inferences
>> because for every token when you
generate text or generate picture for
every new token you need to go through
the entire uh machine uh all over again.
So instead of one inter one shot
interface and then there is more and
then uh now there's a reasoning which
means machine starts you know sort of
thinking
>> if you ask me what time is it now I can
tell you it's easy right what time is
now but if you ask me more more
complicated question then I need to
think I uh probably need to wait or
compare multiple solutions or multiple
paths and every such a thing is
inference.
>> Yeah,
>> every such a thing is inference. And
inference itself uh has uh actually two
uh two phases. One is much more computer
intensive and the other one is uh memory
intensive. It's uh it's uh what we call
prefill because when you do the
inference you have some some sort of
background right which is prompt which
is uh some relevant data that you need
to process and create the context for
the to generate the answer and this is
very computer intensive. it's not much
memory intensive and the other part is
uh actually generating the answer which
is the decode uh part of the uh of the
inference where you generate token by
token.
>> Okay. Well, there are some technologies
that you can generate more than one
token but it's still you know single
path is much less than the final answer.
So if you combine all these things
together uh inference inference demand
for computing is not actually not less
than training. It's it's it's actually
even more and and there are two reasons
for this. One is that what I explained
that there's a much more computing than
it used to be for the inference. The
other thing is you know you train model
once but you infer many times. Yeah. you
know Chad GPT you know billion of people
or yeah it's almost billion of people
right there customers they are pounding
them all the time in the same model they
trained it once
>> now they're making videos so that's all
>> right right right now they're making
videos and you can gener and and you
know everybody is uh is uh is do doing
the inference my wife I think she talks
to Chip more than to me [laughter] these
days once she discovered that's her best
friend
uh so so so the in terms of now to your
question about uh about machines uh you
can infer on the phone.
>> Okay. So there's a definitely going to
be uh much smaller scale uh
installations
uh for for inference.
>> Yeah,
>> it's like mobile devices. If you if you
look at the data center scale the the
and the data center scale and uh on the
uh it's it's uh efficiency of the
programming programmability is much more
viable than uh optimizations uh
optimizations for hardware. And you know
every every hardware uh instance it has
its own uh its own its own cost and its
own uh its own drawback. So as long as
as long as you don't identify and I
don't think uh besides you know this we
actually did uh it's it's it's very
similar GPU it's same it's same
programming model as the GPU for prefill
versus uh versus decode. uh I think I
don't remember it when when when when it
happened but actually we announced that
we are building the GPU uh skew that is
optimized for prefill
>> so you will have uh it can it can do
decode and decode GPU can do prefill so
but you can equip your equip your data
center with the SKS or that prefill
versus SKS that uh that are uh for
decode to to to optimize for like typ
typical use. Yeah. But if your uh
workload shifts for more decoder from
more prefill, you can use uh either one
of them uh to to to compensate. And uh
this is the this is the importance of
programmability. The same interfaces for
GPUs. It's based on CUDA and uh and up
which is that's what made Nvidia Nvidia
before Melanox. Yeah. Can I ask you a
question about data center scaling? So
um for many decades we had Moore's law
and chips got more and more dense and
produced better and better performance
and then we ran into the laws of physics
>> and chips just couldn't get more dense
because their quantum mechanical
properties caused them to break down
>> and so then we had to scale up to the
rack level and now we got to scale out
to the data center level. Is there some
analogous law of data data center
scaling that says when data centers get
too big the communication overhead
causes the performance to break down or
or or just said differently or maybe
said more simply is there a natural
limit to how big data centers can get. I
think there's there's a practical limit
of how much energy you can consume
within uh within given size of the of
the data center. But if if you were
surrounded by nuclear power plants and
you and the energy was available, would
the data center itself perform?
[laughter]
>> I I I I I I don't know. I'm not I'm not
an expert in the in the in the
construction even. But if you surround,
you know, there's a there energy coming
in now the heat heat is going out. So
there's a there's a whole we are now
basically moved pretty much entirely to
the liquid cooling.
>> Yeah. And uh one of the reasons we did
it is to enable much denser denser
compute power. We couldn't build uh as
dense computing as we as we're building
now with the with the air cooling. Yeah.
>> So there's a whole bunch of technologies
coming uh to to help this uh more and
more denser. Now the uh last big data
center which is uh like Xi XAI scale is
100 or 150 megawatt. Now we're talking
about gigawatt data centers. People
talking about 10 gigawatt data centers.
So you know there's a looking forward to
build much much bigger data centers. And
uh
>> are you sending the data centers to
other space?
>> Pretty cool.
>> I I I I think I well one of one of the
one of the things that uh that um
determines the speed of data center
deployment is you know how fast concrete
get gets stable. [laughter]
So
>> very so
>> so before starting Melanox you were at
Intel
>> that's right
>> 16 16 years
>> 16 years
>> became chief architect um Nvidia and
Intel recently announced a partnership
can you share a little bit about what
the vision for that might be
>> the starting point is that uh computing
changed
uh in last decade or little bit more
than decade uh Nvidia started as the
accelerated computing company
uh video games was the first uh and then
it evolved to to AI which is the new way
of data processing. So you cannot just
general one human machine just is not
capable of uh of u
being used as a platform to solve the
problem like you know programming when
human machine is just explaining
somebody what to do. Okay, I can explain
many things and I can explain uh many
people what what to do but I can't I
can't explain how to distinguish between
cat and dog. Right? So there is a new
challenges that AI solves and you need
acceleration there and um our uh
partnership with Intel is actually
fusing accelerated computing with the
general purpose computing because
general purpose computing is not going
away. uh everything will be accelerated
but we accelerate the allp purpose
computing we accelerate the applications
we but so so and uh you know x86 is the
architecture that uh is dominant there
and uh you know it would serve greatly
both companies that's actually one of
the interesting things about Nvidia it's
uh it's the culture of win-win okay we
are not after uh taking a bigger piece
of existing pie. We are after baking our
a bigger pie for everybody and uh uh the
success our success is our customer
success. It's not our success is not the
failure of our competition. Our success
is uh success of our customers and
success of ecosystem. And I think fusing
together uh conventional computing when
human machines and uh accelerated
computing that provided with Invidia
it's actually it's probably open yet
another dimension that I'm not sure what
it is but it basically gives you know on
the practical you know short-term view
is it's uh this gives uh Nvidia and
Intel channels to the market or
expanding the market and serving the
markets that uh otherwise was more
challenging.
>> You mentioned the culture of Nvidia. So
when Melanox became part of Nvidia in
2019, the market cap of the combined
company was about 100 billion which is
no joke, but the market cap today is
about four and a half trillion. That's
right. [laughter] So and so 45x growth
in value in six years is pretty
phenomenal. How has that changed the
culture of Nvidia? How is Nvidia
different today now that it's one of the
most admired companies in the world if
not the most admired versus six years
ago?
>> Yeah, about this you know when when we
just joined uh Jensen was in Israel and
uh I presented him you know that's I
believe that 1 + 1 will be 10 and I
actually was off by factor of four.
[laughter]
So, but Melanox and Nvidia in in a sense
it's uh it's a it's sort of similar.
It's a the culture very similar to begin
with, but there are some
there's nothing absolutely similar. And
uh I was the the only founder that left
uh in Melanox after after realigned
a few months after after the
acquisition. And uh my main focus uh at
the beginning you know things what what
do you think about in the shower was how
to make sure that this acquisition will
succeed.
>> Yeah.
>> You know Nvidia paid $7 billion for
company that uh that I I founded and uh
you know with all the mixed feelings
that were there but once it's done it's
done. Now I have to make it uh
successful.
>> Yeah. So uh eventually it worked.
[laughter]
Most of the most of the Israeli
employees are state. I think it's 85 or
90% of uh original employees state.
Actually Nvidia uh grew more than 2x in
Israel in terms of uh manpower.
>> Yeah. Uh so we we we growing uh and we
are announced that we actually going to
build a compass in uh in Israel new
compass for Nvidia and uh so that's
where I think the the uh overall the
merger was very was very successful.
uh I I did I did my best to make sure it
uh it's it succeeds and uh besides the
technology that I was uh looking at this
part this part of which is sort of
technology but it's technology and
theology and there's many other things
to make sure that people are comfortable
that uh you know from uh being in the
center of Melanox which is the
headquarters on Israel don't feel left
you know somewhere in the far away and
Jensen basically emphasizes the
networking as the critical part of uh
Melon success uh Nvidia success.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and he's right.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So I think it was the it's it's it's
considered to be the most successful
measure in the in the history of the
technology. I you guys probably track
this drug the things better than than I
am. But uh overall I think it was a
great move.
>> Yeah.
>> What are the science fiction things that
you spend your time thinking about? Just
even wondering like for example optical
interconnects. Do you think do you think
that will exist? Do you think AI will
ever be better at physics than than us
and better at data center design than
us? Like
>> well what what I what I thinking you
know in the if you look about science
fiction is how to make history to be
experimental science. You know
>> you can physics do try something and
then you know see if it works and then
try something else in history time goes
one direction but you have a good
simulation of the world you can make
history experience and we have a earth 2
uh climate simulator
>> and uh with this type of technology we
can uh actually simulate how uh what we
do today will impact the global warming
50 years from now.
>> Okay. So experimental science, you know,
you you try something, you see what
happens 50 years later.
Uh
so that's that's that's the science
fiction part.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh you know the physics now we are
moving from reasoning and so on and so
forth. Now we once we get AI models to
understand physics, we actually can
learn physics.
>> Yeah. AI can teach us physics because uh
the way we we we uh we get to the laws
of physics that we observe theoretical
physics, right? You observe some
phenomena and you generalize it and uh
you compose the rule that basically the
law the physics law that stays
underneath of this phenomena and AI is
really great of generalizing and data
processing and observing. So I can help
us to get to know some laws of physics
that we don't even imagine now.
>> Yeah. uh Moore's law was 2x every two
years. Hang plus Kagan's law is what
what is the slope and how long do you
think you can sustain it?
>> Well, the slope is somewhere in the
range of 10x or few orders of magnitude
a year.
>> Okay.
>> And that's what we are doing by the way.
Now we are we are we are since uh about
two or three years ago we accelerated
our product introduction from every
other year to every year. Now we
introduce a new uh new new wave of uh
products every every year and uh it's um
order of magnitude higher performance
and uh it's not it's not on the cheap
level performance it's on the machine
that you can build with this uh
performance that's what we are looking
at it's single unit of computing and uh
how long it will stay I I don't know I
don't know but uh we'll do uh our best
to to maintain it as long as needed and
probably even accelerate. It's uh it's
all about it's all about exponent. It's
all about exponent. It's hard to imagine
you know if you look at this mulo curves
or any any roll curves they they usually
uh plot it on the logarithmic scale. So
it looks like linear but that's wrong
thing to look you can't predict what's
what's going to happen. Who could
predict that uh when iPhone uh was first
introduced or smartphone was first
introduced you know it's 15 years ago
>> 2007 was the iPhone
>> yeah 2007 oh 17 years ago okay who could
uh who could imagine that this
smartphone the least used function at
least for me is a phone
>> yeah [laughter] all it's e-commerce it's
it's texting it's news it's mail it's
basically running running your life from
this machine. So your authentication,
your ID is there.
>> It's so you know now who can imagine
what's going to happen uh you know 10
years from now with all these
developments that we are we are doing
today but we are building the platform
for innovation.
What is the your commentary on who can
imagine notwithstanding?
What is the most optimistic view of our
future with AI that you like to think
about? Like what what could AI do for
the world 5, 10, 15 years from now?
>> Steve Jobs called uh computer to be the
the bicycle of of mind.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So AI is uh it's maybe I don't
know if it's it's it's probably
spaceship [laughter]
because there's a lot of things that I
would like to do but I I I just don't
have enough time don't enough resources
to do it with AI I will have it and it
doesn't mean that you know I will do
twice as much maybe I do I will do 10
times as much but the thing is that I
will want to do 100 times as much is I
want to do today and that's where and
that's where and you know you go to to
to any project leader and nobody says
you know I have enough I have enough
manpower I have enough resources I don't
need anymore okay if you give him
resource which is twice as efficient he
will do four times more yeah
>> and he will want to do 10 times more so
it's like electricity change the world
right instead of using you know in the
in the London you still still see this g
lamps and this infrastructure to to to
use the gas as the as the source of
energy.
Who who could think that you know once
this electricity was invented it will
change the world that you know we can't
live without electricity. The same the
same with AI.
>> Beautifully said. Thank you so much for
joining us today. I love this
conversation.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for
having me.
[music]
>> [music]